From Hansel minutes.com it's Hansel
minutes, a weekly discussion with
web developer and technologists. Scott
Hanselman hosted by Carl Franklin. This
is Lawrence Ryan announcing show number
64. Recorded Tuesday May 1st, 2007. Support
for Hanselman it's just provided
by Tellerik rad controls. The
most comprehensive suite of components
for windows forms@asp.net web applications.
online@wwwdottelerik.com. Support is also provided
by slash end software red
carpet subscriptions. The most comprehensive
solution for adding connectivity to
your.net and asp.net applications with
components for every major internet
protocol online@wwwdotandsoftwaredotcomandby.net developers journal the
world's leading.net developer magazine online
at www dot  dot
com. In this episode, Scott
talks with Lynda Weinman at
mixed Oh seven. Hi, this
is Scott Hanselman, and this
is another episode of Hansel
minutes. I'm here at the
mixed conference in Las Vegas,
and I am fortunate enough
to be here with Linda
Wineman from the world famous
lynda.com, L Y N D
a.com. And if you are
a.net developer and you are
listening to this podcast, you
very likely have never heard
of lynda.com. Would you say
Linda That's very true. We
don't have any dotnet training.
So tell me about linda.com
because for me as someone
who originally started out doing
HTML and CSS, you know,
12, 13 years ago, when,
when lynda.com came out, that
was a gold mine of
information. How long has it
been up On the internet
now? I guess it'll be
12 years this December. So
we're older than eBay, older
than a lot of websites.
I think microsoft.com was probably
a little bit before us,
but not much. And then
if you kept all that
content, I mean, I remember
that your, a web safe
color palette was like legendary.
I mean, it was the
only one out there for
the longest time, those kinds
of documents still available. I
think we have archives of
the website, but you know,
I've written a lot of
books and most of my
research was put into those
books. And of course I
have old copies that have
gone out of date, but
the information is almost no
longer, even that relevant. I
mean, the website pallet really
is not relevant anymore. Back
in the day when, you
know, people had displays, it
couldn't even display 32 bit
color. That was when we
needed the web safe pallet.
No, not really. It's not
necessary. No mine has been
having trouble with colors looking
one way on a Macintosh
and one way on a
PC. Well, that wouldn't be
solved by using The web
safe pallet. That is just
the fact that there are
different settings actually on the
displays work differently, color spaces
work differently. Exactly. So you,
you all guys offer training@lynda.com.
You're primarily what HTML web
design CSS. We're not. That
was where I made my
Mark and got my name,
but I actually started in
the business in motion graphics
and animation. And I wrote
one of the very first
books on web design. And
so I became well known
in the industry for web
design, but I actually have
a lot of broader knowledge
about computer graphics. And in
the last few years, probably
the last seven or eight
years, our website has branched
out and we do digital
photography, digital video, 3d, everything
to do with imaging print,
web, all kinds of, So
just a complete design center.
Is it true? I read
on Wikipedia that you worked
on return of the Jedi.
Yes. That's actually true as
an animator. Yes I did.
So this is interesting because
myself as someone who was
originally a web designer and
became a programmer, I thought
of you as kind of
a, of an HTML web
type designer. And now I'm
here sitting with you and
I'm learning that you are
kind of a full service
design person. So the Silverlight
announcement that we've just come
from just a few hours
ago must be huge. You
must be. I think it's
really exciting that Microsoft is
entering the space and I'm
very impressed with how far
they've come in a year
because I was here last
year at mix and the
expression suite has gone through
a lot of very significant
improvements and definitely the silver
line announcement is wonderful. Now
you're also a flash expert.
So how do you feel
about that? I mean, some
people have have said that
Microsoft should just come out
and say, we are challenging
flash in this space, but
no one will actually come
out and say it. Do
you think this is a
flat complimentary technology to flash?
Is it a flash killer
as everyone's been been kind
of saying stirring the pot
in the press? Well, I
wish I had a good
answer for that. It originally,
I didn't think it was
going to compete with flash
very much because it seemed
to me that it was
more about desktop apps and
it was about web apps,
but the focus has shifted
now to the web and
the fact that it's cross-platform,
I would definitely say that
there will be a significant
group of people eyeballing this
technology that may have never
even considered flash. So I'm
not sure that it's going
to kill flash, but I
think it's going to open
this industry, the interactive design
industry up to a whole
new market. Well, it's definitely
hard to kill a product
that has a 97% browser.
What's the word there? Kind
of penetration. Yeah. I mean,
it's huge. And the flash
nine, I guess, is now
on 80 or 84% of
browser. So yeah, I think
probably kill flash. Isn't the
right. Isn't the right term.
Yeah. And I mean, I
think there's room for everybody.
I think think history has
shown that, I mean, Apple,
Adobe and Microsoft have never
done better than they're doing
right now. All three companies
are doing really well and
it's just a great period
of growth and innovation and
they all sort of leapfrog
over each other and borrow
from each other. And that's
just the way it's always
been, Will be. Now, do
you think that you'll be
doing kind of Greenfield new
website development with Silverlight or
do you have a sense
that you might go back
to existing websites where there's
maybe something that you wanted
to accomplish, but couldn't that
Silverlight could potentially be added
to, to augment an existing
website? So really good question.
I, I sort of imagine
more people are going to
be creating brand new properties
with silver light. It seems
to me that the workflow
and the technology is so
different than anything that's been
there before. And it's so
easy. I mean, I was
impressed that a lot of
the demos that we saw
in the keynote today were
created in three weeks. I
mean, that's so rapid and
it's almost easier to start
from scratch and just, you
know, work with that from
the ground up, I think,
than to redo something that's
already been Well, it sounds
like if you already have
the video codec and they've
constrained it rather than offering
a codec pack, they've said,
here are the one or
two video codecs we plan
on using here's a control
that plays video automatically. So
the video issue becomes then
a non, a non issue.
Here's the encoder. It seems
that most of them are
just kind of scan. Most
of the demos we saw
are scaffolding around video. So
they're allowing the concurrent display
and play a playback of
video automatically. I think that
most of the demos were
done with JavaScript as their
orchestration engine. I'm not sure.
I mean, I think I've
seen a few different deployment
methods. It seems like some
of what I've seen is
just purely in silver light
and it seems like they
have a really good framework
for building interactive video where
a lot of the hooks
and handles are just sort
of, so built in that
to add a feature is
just a matter of choosing
it on a menu. It's
pretty idiot proof. I mean,
I was looking at that
going, wow, I want to
sit and play with that.
You know, it looks really
easy. Now, the kinds of
developers that you usually work
with, that, that you use
your services, your resources, your
training, I assume that they're
probably not.net developers. Are they
rails PHP lamp? You know,
I'm sure there are some
dotnet developers who work with
our service just to give
you some background. We have
a subscription service@lynda.com and we
have over 300 courses and
over a hundred different trainers
and present a very deep
dives into, we're mostly known
for Adobe technologies and Apple
technologies, but we do, you
know, office and Vista and
a few Microsoft titles. We
do have a blend title.
We do have an expression
web title. We have we're
planning to come out with
quite a bit more. That's
one of the reasons why
we're here at mix is
we're recruiting different presenters and
looking for different trainers to
create training on the, On
our subscription service. So that
was my next question is
if you have a lot
of flash and flex training,
are you going to just
play both sides for lack
of a better way for
it? No, I don't think
it's both sides because we've
always been agnostic. We have
a lot of Apple training.
We have corral, we have
a lot of training in
the video space, Autodesk, and
you know, we do 3d.
We've really tried to never
be specific to any one
software vendor. We're a resource
for end users. And I
don't think people really decide
what to use down party
lines. I mean, very few
people only have Microsoft software
on their computer or Adobe
software on their computer. So
we like to believe that
we're just a helpful resource.
We offer all of our
training in videos. So we
have over 18,000 different individual
movies on our website. Okay.
So here's an interesting question
that begs the question. How
do you deliver that video?
We deliver it via QuickTime.
It's progressive. It's not streaming.
And you know, we've been
really happy with QuickTime, but
we're definitely eyeballing. We're gonna
do some sample video in
Silverlight. We're going to give
it a shot. Yeah. Seeing
how quickly they put together
a branded Silverlight player, apparently
in less than three weeks,
you can put together the
lynda.com player. Now, the marketing,
the stuff that we built
into the media and coder,
where you could have certain
portions of the video marked
as chapter marks and then
control that via JavaScript. Very
impressive. I saw a demo
on that and again, it
looks look so simple. Yeah.
One of the things that
really blew me away of
course, was the dynamic language
runtime. And that's really the
big surprise of the conference.
We'd speculated about it a
little bit on this show.
And I realized a couple
of hours ago that you
could have a rails programmer
or Ruby programmer who would
use Silverlight use blend, use
Ruby for the back end,
and he'd never see a
C-sharp or VB, or he'd
never even need to see
visual studio if he, if
he didn't want to. No,
I I'm really impressed. I
mean, I know last year
at mics, it's still felt
to me like everything was
going to go down Microsoft
party lines. In fact, I
had the honor of being
invited to a lunch last
year with bill Gates. And
that was one of my
questions to him because I
had seen expression web. And
I was wondering if there
were ever any plans to
work with outside technologies. You
know, I was, I asked
about PHP and rails and
he said, well, it wouldn't
be too hard to do,
but I didn't get the
impression that he was eager
to do it. And it's
just so really to me,
a really good wind shift
here, a really good C
shaped sea change that we're
seeing, you know, to see
Microsoft open up a little
bit and recognize that they,
that they can still touch
people who aren't using everything,
you know, only down one
party line. And I, I
just don't think that's the
way the world really works.
I think are looking at
solutions. They're not, you know,
whatever works for them. If
they only have access to
Ruby programmers, then why force
them to learn C sharper
to work in something different.
So it just seems smart
to me that Microsoft, because
I think they've been perceived
for so long as everything
referencing themselves, being self referential
and, you know, sort of
serving themselves. And so it's
really nice to see them
opening up and also opening
up and really getting the
power of the web. That
was another big shift that
I saw this year was
just recognizing that yeah, developers
have, you know, for years
built applications that are standalone
applications, but really the whole
world has changed due to
the web. And it's just
neat to see things opening
up. I'm happy about it.
It was a, a good
friend of mine, Chris cells,
who was a trainer for
years and a book writer
for years. And he went
to work for Microsoft and
he said something to me.
I thought it was really
powerful. And I was reminded
of it just now, when
you were saying what you
were saying, which was that
he said, I've, I keep
looking for the evil. You
keep wondering where the master
plan meeting is happening. There
must be someone who's trying
to take over the planet.
I mean, they are a
company and they do want
to make lots and lots
of money, but the program
managers, the people here are
genuinely, I mean, I sound
like a fan boy saying
that, but they're genuinely interested
in making the web. Awesome.
I think you're right. You
know, and that's such a,
then that this conference, unlike
other conferences I've been to
has been so such a
different, it's different vibe in
the air. It's very positive.
It's very, Hey man, Hey
man, do do what makes
you happy? You know, and
if that's JavaScript and rails
or whatever, that's great. I
mean, like right now we're
having a podcast and someone
is running a motorcycle, a
motorized remote control, car bias.
You know, it's just a
very kind of, it's a
love Fest. It's a, it's
a web enabled love festival.
This one has this, this
year really has to me
a very different flavor than
last year. And, and a
lot of it to me,
I've, I feel like Ray
has kind of set a
different tone than bill Gates
set. And I really that's
what I do. I mean,
I, I think he just
appears to really understand that
the web is about open
standards. It's about allowing everyone
to participate in whatever way
they can. And they want
to, rather than trying to
dominate the industry and have
everything relate back to sales,
into Microsoft's pocket. Cause in
reality, they aren't going to
get new market share this
way. They're going to get
new market share by opening
up to other platforms and
other technologies. It's really a
nice, refreshing approach. That's interesting
that you say that about
Ray Ozzie, because, because you
and I were at a
lunch today with Ray Ozzie,
which is where I met
you. And then I said,
quick, quick, come on my
podcast. And I had asked
Ray, what's your, what's your
five year plan? What's your
master plan? Surely, surely there
must be a master plan.
And he was so pragmatic
about it. His master plan
was give the developers really
awesome tools and kind of
listen to the wind and
see how things are going
and adjust as appropriate. And
they will make good stuff
and I pushed him on
it and he's like, no,
no, really seriously. They're going
to figure it out. It's
almost a, a meritocracy and
it's a web wide meritocracy
Different because if you think
back to the history with
Microsoft and kind of, you
know, the whole battle between
Netscape and Explorer and just
what has gone down to
date in that it felt
like Microsoft was really trying
to own their version of
the web and everything was
going to be sort of
like a Microsoft flavor and
really not a whole lot
of openness to wanting to
work with standards bodies. And
that has just it's changed.
And it's so refreshing. I
mean, I'm really delighted actually.
It's like finding there's a
new sandbox to play in,
you know, cause the industry
is such a exciting industry
and I love being in
it. I love watching everything
change and seeing tools improve
and seeing the, all the
possibilities that are out there
become, you know, into, you
know, just sort of be
born. And so it's, it's
great to see them not
be closed. I think they're
gonna find that they're gonna,
you know, get a lot
more market share that way
actually. So here's a little
bit of a shift and
a kind of a philosophical
question. As, as we start
writing this XAML we start
writing each Silverlight applications or
on the flash side, some
of the, a, it was
at MX ML. They call
us, you know, we're pushing
around angle brackets that aren't
the traditional HTML that we've
ordinarily seen. And we spoke
to the gentleman at lunch,
we talked to Scott Guthrie and
they said, well, you know,
HTML has its place. It's
going to be around for
a long time, but I've
always felt that the kind
of strange relationship between HTML,
Dom CSS and JavaScript has
been almost a house of
cards that we're building these
applications on and is Gmail
utterly brilliant or utterly sick
and twisted in that it
works, but God help us.
What happened underneath, right? You
know, what price their soul?
Well, it's human ingenuity. It's
people figuring out with limited
tools how they can still
make compelling things. And I
think it's fascinating to watch
people figure out a way
to do it no matter
what Is it right though,
is the word is mashups
building the entire web on
the house of cards? I
think what it's done is
it's opened up a world
of imagination that could never
have been harnessed. Had people
not have, have to figure
out how to work around.
I mean, sometimes scarcity is
the mother of invention and
that's certainly what we've seen
happen on the web. So
I don't know. I think
if we only had one
wrapper, one framework, one way
of doing things that it
would, it wouldn't be as
exciting as it is today.
You have such a positive
and pragmatic attitude, I suppose.
It's one that comes over,
you watching the entire history,
right. And when did you
get into this? How Well
I got into computers in
1982. So I guess I
got my first computer in
1980 actually. So I've really
watched a lot change. I
mean, from CPM and, you
know, command line, everything and
serve and genie. And no,
I wasn't, I actually first
connected experience AppleTalk strangely enough,
because I was invited into
the Apple solutions network when
I was very early on
in my early Mac days,
probably 1985 or 1986. Cause
I don't have a computer
background. I, you know, I
got into the film industry
and into design and into
animation and discovered the really
got excited about the Macintosh
in 1984. I'd been using
computers. I think I started
got my first computer in
1980. So I got very
excited by the Mac that
that really kind of rocked
my world. And because it
was so approachable and I
wasn't interested in the computer
science part of it or
the programming part of it,
I was more interested in
design and animation and filmmaking
and editing and photography and
all the visual design. So
this is, this might be
a silly question, but it
just popped into my head.
So juxtapose the tools that
you used to do, the
kinds of work you did
on return to the Jedi,
which was done in 83,
83 and 83. So that
would have been 14 years
ago, 24 years ago. Okay.
So 24 years ago you
did something. There was some
serious animation going on in
that, you know, there was
a lot of puppets and
stuff, but tools. So what
were those tools like versus
what we saw real time
in the browser, lightweight video
editing tool in 50 K.
Yeah. I mean, it's, it's,
it's parallel. You still do
the same things. I mean,
it's really interesting that a
lot of the same principles
of design have never changed.
I mean the principles of
good editing, good design, good
graphics, good color choices, good
con composition, those things never
changed. But you know, I
used to draw with a,
repeat, a graph and a
pen and ink and use
an airbrush and have to
wear a mask and have
like black boogers in my
nose. And, you know, I
mean, it was very visceral
like you did, you do
all the same things now
using Bezier curves and nodes
and mass and alpha channels
and things like that. You
know, so it's, you're doing
exactly the same thing. You're
just using a different kind
of tool to do it
with that's much more instantaneous.
I think that's really been
the big shift. That's one
of the things that computers
have brought to the world
is, you know, instant access
to an instant results to
things that used to take
a lot longer. So it
sounds like your work at
the, the art was art
center, college of design. I
was a teacher there it's
serving you better than, than
my computer science degree, which
has now completely obsolete, I
suppose. I suppose that could
be true. I mean, I'm,
there are principles of programming
aren't there And the basics
are always the basics. I
mean, virtual machines, garbage collection,
we saw it 40 years
ago and we're seeing it
today, right? So you're right.
We all come back to
the basics, But, and I
love actually teaching tools. You
know, we hear a lot
cause we, our library is
used in many colleges and
what the teachers love about
it is they don't have
to keep up with the
latest version of everything and
they can stick to teaching
the principles with their students
or working on a real
project rather than having to
learn, you know, the next
version of flash, the next
version of this or that.
And I think there is
a lot to be said
for the computer in that,
you know, people kind of
get into everything a little
bit differently than they used
to, and that it used
to be that you had
to learn the principles before
you would ever practice certain
crafts. And now you have,
I mean, I just loved
the Cole bearer, you know,
green-screen challenge that just way,
What you're referring to is
Steven Colbert, who is on
the cupbearer rapport, which is
after the daily show on
comedy central here in the
U S basically stood in
front of a green screen
and dance around for the
better part of a few
minutes and said, here, I
challenge you to make a
remix, Right. And on and
on YouTube, all of these
people were doing green-screen compositing
and adding three D animation.
And I mean, just, I
don't know how many tens
of thousands of submissions there
were about to me that
was just startling. That was
a craft that, you know,
very few people practiced back,
you know, starting with like,
let's say Ray Harryhausen and
you know, the beginning of
animation and special effects. And
even when I was into
it, it was a small,
small industry. And now the
fact that anybody with a
video camera and a piece
of software can, can play
in that field, in that
sandbox. Well, some of them
with handheld inexpensive HD video,
they're doing quality that I
don't mean to speak about
return of the Jedi, but
certainly approaches the complexity of
the kinds of animations that
are going on. The kinds
of compositing, the kinds of
things, some of these, you've
seen some of these fans,
star Wars things. They're unbelievable.
They're done on a portable
company. I know. And I
think, you know, I, I
never realized that humanity had
it in, in, in them,
you know, in itself, or
I don't know how quite
to phrase that, but I
had never realized that there
were so many frustrated storytellers
and creators and not, maybe
not frustrated, but just people
who didn't even know they
had that, that ability to,
to, to play in that
arena. And that's what I
think is so empowering about
the computer that, you know,
we're, we're, none of us
would have thought to have
become book writers, you know,
but let's look at all
these people who are blogging
and, you know, people wouldn't
have thought to get into
the field of being video
editors or videographers or photographers.
I mean, look at what
digital photography has done to
photography is a field just
completely opened it up. Well,
there's been a bit, there's
been a lot of garbage,
but within that, there are
people who never learned how
to do photography in the
classic way. I mean, in
the dark room in black
and white, like I did
in high school, and I'm
a lousy photographer, some of
the stuff people are doing
with digital stuff in Lightroom,
Adobe Lightroom, which looks an
awful lot like blend and
that the new design tools
seem to have a common,
common thread with their pallets
Yeah. Black background. I can
moody in there in their
pallets. It sounds like you're
saying that everyone had a
voice before they just didn't
have the tools to express
themselves. Yeah. So are you
going to start playing with
Silverlight immediately or have you
already deep into it? You
know, I haven't had time,
but I'm certainly inspired after
this event. I definitely can't
wait to tear it open
and dig in who has
time at this conference. Right.
We'll be lucky if we
get to sleep Well, thank
you very much for taking
the time to talk to
us and people can check
you out@lynda.com. And then what
is your podcast? And I
also run the Flashforward conference,
which is the largest flash
conference in the world it's
been going for seven years.
So my, the podcasts that
I have personally conducted are
at flash-forward conference.com and on
iTunes. And we also have
a lynda.com podcast on iTunes
and atlanta.com. All right, fantastic.
Well, I really appreciate you
taking the time out of
your day and I'll see
you around the conference. I
hope so. Thanks.